The President:
Even though our economy
is growing again,
these are still tough
times for America.
Too many businesses
are still shuttered.
Too many families
can't make ends meet.
And while yesterday, we learned
that the unemployment rate has
dropped below 10% for the
first time since summer,
it's still unacceptably high -- and too many Americans still
can't find work.
But what we have to remember at a time like this is that we're
not helpless in the face
of our difficulties.
As Americans, we
make our own destiny.
We forge our own path.
And I'm confident that if we
come together and put aside the
politics that keeps holding
us back, we can do that again.
We can rebuild this
economy on a new,
stronger foundation that
leads to more jobs and greater prosperity.
I believe a key part of that
foundation is America's small
businesses -- the places
where most new jobs begin.
These companies represent the
essence of the American spirit
-- the promise that anyone can succeed in this country if you
have a good idea and the
determination to see it through.
And every once in awhile, these
ideas don't just lead to a new
business and new jobs, but a new
American product that forever
changes the world.
After all, Hewlett
Packard began in a garage.
Google began as a
simple research project.
Government can't create
these businesses,
but it can give entrepreneurs
the support they need to open
their doors, expand,
or hire more workers.
And that's what we've
always done in this country.
The folks at Southwest
Windpower in Flagstaff,
Arizona started their
company in a small home.
Since getting a loan from the
Small Business Administration,
they've sold 160,000 wind
turbines to about 90 different
countries, and are hiring
even more workers today.
When Sam Ko walked into one
of the SBA's small business
development centers in Illinois,
he didn't have any business
experience at all -- just
a patent for a new metal
manufacturing technology.
He was given a loan
and a business plan,
and today his company
is still growing,
with offices all
over the Midwest.
Last year, the steps we took supported over 47,000 loans to
small businesses and delivered billions in tax relief to small
business owners, which helped companies keep their doors open,
make payroll, and hire workers.
But we can and must do more.
That's why I've proposed a
series of steps this week to
support small business owners
and the jobs they create --
to provide more access to
credit, more incentives to hire,
and more opportunities to grow
and sell products all over the world.
Because financing remains
difficult for good,
credit-worthy small
businesses across the country,
I've proposed that we take
$30 billion from the TARP fund
originally used for Wall Street
and create a new Small Business
Lending Fund that will provide
capital for community banks on Main Street.
These are the small, local banks
that will be able to give our
small business owners more of
the credit they need to stay afloat.
And we should also continue to
waive fees, increase guarantees,
and expand the size of
SBA-backed loans for small businesses.
And yesterday, I proposed making
it easier for small business
owners to refinance their
mortgages during these tough times.
To give these companies greater
incentives to grow and create
jobs, I've proposed a new tax
credit for more than one million
small businesses that hire
new workers or raise wages,
as well as the elimination of
all capital gains taxes on small
business investment.
Finally, we should provide
targeted support to the most
innovative small businesses
-- the ones with the greatest
potential to export new goods and products all over the world.
A lot of these companies -- like the wind turbine manufacturer I
mentioned -- are the foundation on which we can rebuild our
economy to compete
in the 21st century.
They just need a little help
securing the financing they need
to get off the ground.
We have every incentive
to help them do that.
Next week, Congress will
start debating many of these proposals.
And if anyone has additional
ideas to support small
businesses and create jobs,
I'm happy to consider them.
My door's always open.
But I urge members of both
parties: do not oppose good
ideas just because it's
good politics to do so.
The proposals I've outlined are
not Democratic or Republican;
liberal or conservative.
They are pro-business,
they are pro-growth,
and they are pro-job.
Leaders in both parties have
supported similar ideas in the past.
So let's come together and pass
these measures without delay.
Let's put more
Americans back to work,
and let's give our small
business owners the support to
do what they've always done: the
freedom to pursue their dreams
and build our country's future.
Thanks for listening.